60 nobles of the Holy Roman Empire drowned in ...... in Erfurt;faeces;swamp;a huge fountain in the city center;urban honey reserves
The shortest war in history - between England and Zanzibar, lasted only .... minutes;38 minutes;2 days;an hour and a half;a week;
60 nobles of the Holy Roman Empire drowned in ...... in Erfurt;faeces;swamp;a huge fountain in the city center;urban honey reserves
The shortest war in history - between England and Zanzibar, lasted only .... minutes;38 minutes;2 days;an hour and a half;a week;
Surprisingly, once .... used as a remedy for cough relief in children;heroin;cocaine;opium;amphetamine;
In 1952, Albert Einstein could have become president ...., but the scientist voluntarily resigned from this position.;Israel;Sweden;Spain;Switzerland;
Arabic numerals were not invented by Arabs, but by mathematicians from .... .;India;China;Israel;Germany;
Who was prime minister of the UK for most of the Second World War?;W. Churchill;B. Mussolini;I. Stallin;Elizabeth II;
Which structures were built in medieval times as a mixture of residence and defensive building?;Castles;Villas;Catapults;Tanks;
Which liner sank on her maiden voyage in 1912?;Titanic;Black Pearl;Flying Dutchman;Santa-Maria;
In which country in ancient times was mummification carried out on important people when they died?;Egypt;India;Mayan;Roman Empire;
Which city did the ancient Greeks by legend besiege for 10 years?;Troy;Athens;Sparta;Corinth;
How many wives did Henry VIII have?;6;5;12;3;
Which people travelled in longships and raided Britain from Scandinavia in early medieval times?;Vikings;Mongols;Romanians;Aztecs;
An act of 1864 outlawed children doing what job, for which they were often employed?;Chimney sweep;Shepsherd;Factory worker;Shoe shiner;
What title was given to the rulers of Ancient Egypt?;Pharaoh;King;Emperor;Holy Father;
What overall term is given to the people who fought each other and animals as entertainment in Ancient Rome?;Gladiators;Vikings;Berserks;Dumbs;
What material was used to make a famous bridge in Shropshire in 1779, a town now being named after it?;Iron;Gold;Bronze;Copper;
Who took elephants across the Alps?;Hannibal;Alexandr Macedonian;Leonid;Genghis Khan;
What famous structure was built on Salisbury Plane in the third millennium BC?;Stonehenge;Sphinx;Phyramid;Trojan horse;
Where did the Olympic Games originate?;Greece;India;Egypt;Kievan Rus;
Who was the first american president?;G. Washington;J. Adams;J. Madison;D. Trump;
Which country first used paper money?;China;Egypt;Greece;India;
Which country gifted the Statue of Liberty to the USA?;France;Italy;Germany;Greenland;
In which country are the ancient pyramids located?;Egypt;Greece;India;Macedonia;
What city was the first capital of the United States?;Philadelphia;Washington;York;Miami;
Who first discovered America?;Leif Eriksson;Christopher Columbus;Alexand Macedonian;Marco Polo;
How many U.S. Presidents have there been?;46;45;44;47;
What year did women receive the right to vote in the United States?;1920;1913;1924;Never;
Who invented the light bulb?;Thomas Edison;Alber Einstein;Nicola Tesla;Leonardo Da Vinci;
Who is the father of history?;Herodotus;Jesus;Socrat;Muhammad;
Who invented the first car?;Karl Friedrich Benz;Henry Ford;Rudolf Diesel;Ferdinand Porsche;
How many years did it take to build the Taj Mahal?;22;34;12;7;
Who painted the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel?;Michelangelo;Leonardo;Donatello;Raphael;
What doesn`t belong to the four great inventions of China?;clock;papermaking;gunpowder;compas;
Who was Lenin's successor?;I.Stalin;M.Gorbachev;B.Elzin;W.Churchill;
Which country did Algeria gain independence?;France;Germany;Spain;Italy;
In which year was the Great Fire of London?;1666;1555;1568;1654;
What ancient boat, usually measured in cubits, was said to contain two of each living creature?;Noah;s Ark;Titanic;Black Pearl;Flying Dutchman;
Who should we invite to the medieval tournament? Medieval soldiers. What are they called?;Knights;Gladiators;Vikings;Berserks;
One of the meats King Henry VIII could have eaten is called venison, which comes from which animal?;Deer;Boar;Badger;Hare;
In the 1500s, fur hats became very popular in Europe. This created a huge demand for imported pelts from which hard-working and industrious animal from Canada?;Beaver;Polar Bear;Arctic Fox;Hare;
Which person's name is the word "America" derived from?;Amerigo Vespucci;Christopher Columbus;Amerik Calerdoni;Vasco Americus;
What is Pompeii?;an italian city;a volcano;a famous Roman man; The Roman volcano god;
Which European city was divided by a wall by which capitalism was to the west and Communism was to the east?;Berlin;London;Paris;Madrid;
Choose the word that best completes the sentence. "______ are interesting toys but have no military value." - Marshal Ferdinand Foch of France, 1911;Airplanes;Marbles;Stoves;Tanks;
In Tudor times it was common to drink beer at mealtimes. Which of these drinks is similar to beer?;Ale;Sherry;Rum;Wine;
Papyrus is a paper-like material. It is made from the stems of the papyrus reed, which grows along the banks of the Nile river. Which ancient civilization wrote on papyrus?;Egypt;India;China;Bablon;
What destroyed Pompeii?;volcanic eruption;hurricane;earthquaake;giant;
The Cold War was a war of words and hostility mainly between the USSR and which country?;USA;France;Spain;Germany;
In which war was Benito Mussolini a leader and dictator?;WWII;WWI;Vietnam War;Trojan War;
Choose the word that best completes the sentence. "The horse is here to stay, but the ______ is only a novelty -- a fad." -- president of the Michigan Savings Bank, 1903;automobile;telegraph;plane;piano;
What was the name of the bomb which was dropped on Hiroshima on 6 August 1945?;Little Boy;Big Boy;Little Man;Blue boy;
First our ancestors made tools from stone, then from bronze. later they learnt to work with a material that gave them even better tools. From which material did our ancestors make their tools next?;Iron;WWood;Plastic;Gold;
The Hundred Years War was fought between England and which other country?;France;Germany;Scotland;Italy;
In which US state was gold discovered in 1849?;California;Texas;Montana;Idaho;
Choose the word that best completes the sentence. "A ______ will never be able to leave the earth's atmosphere." -- New York Times editorial, 1920;rocket;toothbrush;steam engine;sailboat;
Which of these methods was most likely to be used for preserving food in Tudor times?;Salting;Canning;Freezing;Microwaving;
Which country did Britain start sending convicts to in the late 18th century?;Australia;USA;Canada;France;
 The first atomic bomb attack was on which city?;Hiroshima;New York;Nagasaki;Madrid;
